<section className="px-6 py-12 bg-gray-200 min-h-screen">

px-6 — horizontal padding left/right = 1.5rem. Keeps content from touching the viewport edges.

py-12 — vertical padding top/bottom = 3rem. Gives vertical breathing room above and below the whole section.

bg-gray-200 — light gray background color for the whole section; separates the projects area visually from other sections.

min-h-screen — minimum height equal to 100vh (full viewport height). Ensures the projects section fills at least the screen vertically on first load.

Combined effect: a roomy, visually separated section that fills the screen and doesn’t feel cramped.

<h1 className="text-3xl font-bold text-center mb-10">

text-3xl — font size (~1.875rem). Large header size appropriate for section titles.

font-bold — heavier font weight for emphasis.

text-center — horizontally center the heading (good for wide and narrow screens).

mb-10 — margin-bottom = 2.5rem to separate the heading from the grid.

Why: Clear, centered title with comfortable spacing.

<div className="grid grid-cols-1 sm:grid-cols-2 lg:grid-cols-3 gap-8">

grid — enable CSS Grid layout.

grid-cols-1 — default to 1 column (mobile).

sm:grid-cols-2 — at the sm breakpoint (≥640px), switch to 2 columns (tablets).

lg:grid-cols-3 — at lg (≥1024px), use 3 columns (desktop).

gap-8 — grid gap of 2rem between rows and columns.

Why: Responsive grid that collapses down for small screens and expands to 2/3 columns on larger screens, with consistent spacing.

Card wrapper

className="bg-white shadow-lg rounded-xl overflow-hidden hover:scale-105 transition-transform duration-300 flex flex-col h-full"

Breakdown:

bg-white — card background white (contrast against gray section).

shadow-lg — large box-shadow for depth/elevation.

rounded-xl — large rounded corners for a modern look.

overflow-hidden — clip child content that exceeds card bounds (prevents image overflow and keeps border-radius tidy).

hover:scale-105 — scale the whole card to 105% on hover (subtle pop).

transition-transform — animate transforms (scale) smoothly.

duration-300 — animation duration = 300ms for the hover effect.

flex flex-col — make the card a vertical flex container so children stack; needed to use mt-auto inside.

h-full — let the card stretch to the full height of its grid cell so all cards in the row match height.

Why: Visually consistent cards with hover feedback and layout control — flex + h-full are the key to bottom-aligned buttons.

Image

className="w-full h-40 object-cover"

w-full — image takes full width of the card.

h-40 — fixed height (~10rem) for the image area, keeping card visuals consistent.

object-cover — crop the image to fill the area while preserving aspect ratio; avoids squishing.

Why: Predictable image region and consistent card height regardless of the source photo's aspect ratio.

Card content wrapper

className="p-4 flex flex-col space-y-3 h-full"

p-4 — padding of 1rem inside the content area.

flex flex-col — stack content vertically and allow mt-auto to work.

space-y-3 — vertical spacing between direct children = 0.75rem.

h-full — stretch this content area to the full height of the card so mt-auto can push the buttons to the bottom.

Why: This wrapper organizes title, description, tech tags, and the button row vertically and ensures the layout fills the card height.

Title

className="text-xl font-semibold"

text-xl — title font size (~1.25rem).

font-semibold — medium-bold weight so the title stands out but isn’t as heavy as the section heading.

Why: Readable project title that’s visually primary within the card.

Description

className="text-gray-600 text-sm"

text-gray-600 — subdued gray color for secondary text (less visual weight than the title).

text-sm — smaller font size for compact description.

Why: Keeps the description readable but visually subordinate to the title.

Tech tags wrapper

className="flex flex-wrap gap-2"

flex — lay tags out in a row by default.

flex-wrap — allow tags to wrap to next line when space runs out.

gap-2 — spacing between tag items = 0.5rem.

Why: Tags flow naturally across lines on small screens and stay inline on larger widths.

Single tech tag

className="bg-blue-100 text-blue-700 text-xs px-2 py-1 rounded-md"

bg-blue-100 — very light blue background for the pill.

text-blue-700 — darker blue text for contrast and visual cohesion.

text-xs — extra small text to keep pills compact.

px-2 py-1 — horizontal and vertical padding to make the pill comfortable to read.

rounded-md — small corner radius for pill shape.

Why: Small, readable badges to show technologies without stealing attention.

Buttons row

className="flex justify-between mt-auto pt-4"

flex — align buttons horizontally in a row.

justify-between — push the two buttons to opposite ends (left and right).

mt-auto — crucial: pushes this buttons row to the bottom of the card’s vertical space (auto top margin consumes all available space).

pt-4 — extra padding-top (1rem) above the buttons, visually separating them from the tech tags.

Why: Guarantees buttons stick to the bottom of the card regardless of how much text appears above.

Extra notes, tips & gotchas

h-full on the card and content wrapper is required for mt-auto to work. Without the parent stretching, mt-auto has nothing to push against.

Using object-cover on images avoids distorted thumbnails but will crop the photo; choose a consistent image aspect ratio when possible.

gap-8 controls both row and column spacing — change it to gap-y-8 gap-x-6 if you want different vertical/horizontal spacing.

If you want equal-height cards across varying content, keep h-full on the card and let the grid row height be determined by the tallest card.

For accessibility, add alt text to images (you already have it — good).

To make the hover effect smoother across all browsers, you can combine transform-gpu if needed: transition-transform transform-gpu.